We have used optical observations of resolved stars from the Panchromatic
Hubble Andromeda Treasury (PHAT) to measure the recent ($< 500\myr$) star
formation histories (SFHs) of 33 \fuv{}-bright regions in M31. The region areas
ranged from $\sim 10^4$ to $10^6\pc^2$, which allowed us to test the
reliability of \fuv{} flux as a tracer of recent star formation on sub-kpc
scales. The star formation rates (SFRs) derived from the extinction-corrected
observed \fuv{} fluxes were, on average, consistent with the 100-Myr mean SFRs
of the SFHs to within the $1\sigma$ scatter. Overall, the scatter was larger
than the uncertainties in the SFRs and particularly evident among the smallest
regions. The scatter was consistent with an even combination of discrete
sampling of the initial mass function and high variability in the SFHs. This
result demonstrates the importance of satisfying both the full-IMF and the
constant-SFR assumptions for obtaining precise SFR estimates from \fuv{} flux.
Assuming a robust \fuv{} extinction correction, we estimate that a factor of
2.5 uncertainty can be expected in \fuv{}-based SFRs for regions smaller than
$10^5\pc^2$, or a few hundred pc. We also examined ages and masses derived from
UV flux under the common assumption that the regions are simple stellar
populations (SSPs). The SFHs showed that most of the regions are not SSPs, and
the age and mass estimates were correspondingly discrepant from the SFHs. For
those regions with SSP-like SFHs, we found mean discrepancies of $10\myr$ in
age and a factor of 3 to 4 in mass. It was not possible to distinguish the
SSP-like regions from the others based on integrated \fuv{} flux.

***

M31 flux modeling abstract

***

Pull it together with a short paragraph.
